Installation

Warning: The instructions on

  Safety

   related to the

  rc_randomdot

   and

  rc_visard

   must be read and understood prior to installation.

Mounting

The

rc_randomdot

 offers a mounting-point setup with standard tripod thread at the
bottom, and pivot points for the provided mounting bracket on either
side.


For troubleshooting purposes, the projector may be mounted using the
standardized tripod thread (UNC 1/4"-20) at the bottom of the housing.
For mounting the

rc_randomdot

 on top of an

rc_visard

 in static or low dynamic applications (e.g. above robot cells or on
mobile platforms), the supplied mounting bracket must be attached to
the

rc_visard

 with two M4 x 10 8.8 machine screws, and the projector must be
attached to the mounting bracket with two M4 x 10 8.8 machine screws
at the pivot points. All screws must be tightened to 2.4 Nm and only
TufLok nylon coated screws may be used. Alternatively screws need to
be secured with a medium-strength threadlocking adhesive such as
Loctite 243. Maximum thread depth is 6 mm. The supplied mounting
bracket is not suitable for dynamic robot applications. It is the
customer's responsibility to provide adequate mounting of the

rc_randomdot

.

Warning: For permanent installations, the

  rc_randomdot

   must be mounted with four M4 x 10 8.8 machine screws tightened to
  2.4 Nm torque. Screws must be Tuflok coated or secured with
  threadlocking adhesive. Do not use high-strength bolts.

Warning: The supplied mounting bracket is not suitable for dynamic
  robot applications. It is the customer's responsibility to provide
  adequate mounting of the

  rc_randomdot

  .

Depending on the working distance, it might be necessary to tilt the
projector downwards to cover the complete filed of view of the

rc_visard

. This can be accomplished by loosening the screws attaching the

rc_randomdot

 to the mounting bracket at the pivot point, and moving the

rc_randomdot

 to the desired angle.


Power-up

Note: Always fully connect and tighten all M12 connectors on the
  both the

  rc_visard

   and

  rc_randomdot


  before

   turning on the power supply.

After connecting the system to power, the LEDs on the front of the

rc_randomdot

 and

rc_visard

 should immediately illuminate. During the

rc_visard

's boot process, it's LED will change color and will eventually turn
green. This signals that all processes are up and running. The

rc_randomdot

's status LED should turn green right away. The

rc_randomdot

 projector will flash a number of times during the boot process.

Warning: Do not look into the lens of the

  rc_randomdot

   or into the light beam at any point during startup or operation.

For troubleshooting the

rc_visard

's boot process and connections, please refer to the

rc_visard

 documentation at

https://doc.rc-visard.com/latest/en/troubleshooting.html#led-colors

.

Operating the projector

The

rc_randomdot

 projector is controlled via the GPIO Out 1 of the

rc_visard

.

For a tutorial on operating the projector, please refer to:

https://tutorials.roboception.de/rc_visard_general/projector.html

.

Note: A valid IOControl license is required on the

  rc_visard

  . It is included in the standard on-board software package of all
  rc_visards purchased 07/2020 and thereafter. For upgrading an older

  rc_visard

  , please obtain your license at

  https://roboception.com/product/rc_reason-iocontrol

  .

State and behavior of the

rc_visard

's GPIOs can then be controlled via the

rc_visard

's WebGUI IOControl panel from the Modules tab. Starting with

rc_visard

 firmware 20.10, GPIO Out 1 is set to

Low

 by default, turning the projector off.

ExposureActive

 turns on the

rc_randomdot

 for exactly the exposure time of every image.

High

 will turn the projector on continuously, but reduce power to 18% to
protect the light source.

Typically, the user will select

ExposureAlternateActive

 mode, in which the

rc_randomdot

 is on only for the exposure time of every second image. Images with
projected pattern are used for computing depth images. Images without
pattern can be used for texture or other image processing modules.

In

ExposureAlternateActive

 mode, the

rc_visard

's auto exposure algorithm ensures that images with pattern are
correctly exposed in order to produce dense disparity images. As
identical exposure settings are used for the images without pattern,
which are displayed in the WebGUI, those might be underexposed
depending on overall illumination conditions. This effect can be
minimized by properly adjusting environmental light conditions,
projector lens aperture, and exposure time.

Adjusting focus

During production, the focus of the

rc_randomdot

 is set to a distance 1.2 m by default. When the projector is used for
a very different working distance, adapting the focus might be
necessary. Perfectly focusing the projector is not crucial. A slightly
blurred projection pattern will not degrade the depth image.

To inspect the sharpness of the projector pattern, the projector
should be turned on permanently by setting the

Out1 / Projector

 mode to "High" on the Web GUI under Camera ‣ IOControl Settings or
Configuration ‣ IOControl.

The projector focus only needs to be adjusted when the projector
pattern is strongly blurred. In this case, remove the

rc_randomdot

's protective lens cap by unscrewing it. Then loosen the three small
fixing Phillips screws on the focus ring as shown in

Fig. 11

. Then, turn the focus ring until the visible projector pattern
becomes sharp. After that, lightly tighten the focus ring screws again
and replace the protective lens cap to restore the IP54 rating and EMC
compatibility of the projector.


Adjusting aperture

The aperture of the

rc_randomdot

 influences the brightness of the projector pattern. By default, the
aperture of the

rc_randomdot

 is fully open, which means the projector has maximum brightness. The
aperture should be adjusted so that the brightness difference between
images taken with projector and images taken without projector is not
too large, but the projector pattern is still visible in the images
taken with projector. To find the correct setting, make sure the
external light in the working environment is similar to what is
expected during productive mode and the camera with the

rc_randomdot

 is mounted at the desired distance from the scene.

Then, on the Web GUI under Camera, set the

Exposure

 mode to "Auto" and set the

Auto Exposure Mode

 to "AdaptiveOut1". Also set the

Out1 / Projector

 mode to "ExposureAlternateActive" under

IOControl Settings

, so that every second image is taken with projector pattern. Now, the
text line under the live images shows the

Out1 reduction

 value in percent.

The

Out1 reduction

 value describes the reduction of the brightness of the image without
projection compared to the image with projection. The value should be
between 10% and 20%. A higher

Out1 reduction

 value means, that the projector is too bright compared to the
external lighting, which leads to images without projector patterns
being too dark. Thus, external lighting should be increased, e.g. by
installing an additional light source, or the brightness of the
projector should be reduced by slightly closing the aperture. In
analogy, if the

Out1 reduction

 value is too low, the projector is not bright enough compared to the
external light, which means that the projector pattern will hardly be
visible in the camera images and cannot enhance the depth computation.
So the external light should be reduced or the projector brightness
must be increased by opening the aperture.

The aperture of the projector can be adjusted by removing the

rc_randomdot

's protective lens cap by unscrewing it. Then loosen the three small
fixing Phillips screws on the aperture ring as shown in

Fig. 11

. Now turn the ring until the

Out1 reduction

 value is in the range between 10% and 20%.

After that, the darkest object that is possible in the application
should be placed in the field of view of the camera. If the dark
object is not properly visible in the depth image, then the projector
brightness must be increased, despite high

Out1 reduction

 values.

In the end, lightly tighten the aperture ring screws again and replace
the protective lens cap to restore the IP54 rating and EMC
compatibility of the projector.
