Troubleshooting

LED colors

During the boot process of the

rc_visard

, the

rc_randomdot

 will flash several times. The status LED will should turn green
almost immediately. During normal operation the following colors of
the

rc_randomdot

 can be observed.

rc_randomdot status LED colors      LED color  rc_randomdot status
red  Overtemperature Warning: Projector temperature has exceeded 75Â°C
blue  Trigger signal active  green  rc_randomdot is ready

Hardware issues

LED does not illuminate

The

rc_randomdot

 does not start up.

Ensure that cables are connected and secured properly.

Ensure that adequate DC voltage (22 V to 29 V) with correct polarity
is applied to the power connector at the pins labeled as Power and
Ground as described in the device's pin assignment
specification\:(Section \ref{hardware_spec:tab-power-pin-
assignments}). Connecting the sensor to voltage outside of the
specified range, to alternating current, with reversed polarity, or to
a supply with voltage spikes will lead to permanent hardware damage.

LED turns red while the projector appears to function normally

This may indicate a high housing and power LED temperature. The
projector might be mounted in a position that obstructs free airflow
around the cooling fins.

Clean cooling fins and housing.

Ensure a minimum of 10 cm free space in all directions around cooling
fins to provide adequate convective cooling.

Ensure that ambient temperature is within specified range.

The projector may turn off when cooling is insufficient or the ambient
temperature exceeds the specified range.

Reliability issues and/or mechanical damage

This may be an indication of ambient conditions (vibration, shock,
resonance, and temperature) being outside of specified range. Please
refer to the

specification of environmental conditions

.

Operating the rc_randomdot outside of specified ambient conditions
might lead to damage and will void the warranty.

Electrical shock when touching the projector

This indicates an electrical fault in sensor, cabling, or power supply
or adjacent system.

Immediately turn off power to the system, disconnect cables, and have
a qualified electrician check the setup.

Ensure that the projector housing is properly grounded; check for
large ground loops.
